modules/ecash-wallet/README.md, before:

# ecash-wallet

A production-ready wallet class for building and broadcasting eCash (XEC) txs

## Use

Install with `npm` (when published).

`npm i ecash-wallet`

Import. Create your `Wallet` and use methods.

```
import { Wallet } from "ecash-wallet";

const mnemonic = 'morning average minor stable parrot refuse credit exercise february mirror just begin',

const wallet = Wallet.fromMnemonic(mnemonic, chronik);
```

See tests for detailed methods.

## Roadmap

`ecash-wallet` is engineered to be a drop-in wallet lib for any ecash application that needs wallet functionality. The first milestone demonstrating minimal fulfillment of this requirement will be the integration of `ecash-wallet` into Cashtab.

### Phase One, Cashtab feature parity

-   XEC actions
    [x] Send XEC to one recipient
    [x] Send XEC to many recipients

-   GENESIS, MINT, SEND, and BURN for all token types
    [x] SLP_TOKEN_TYPE_FUNGIBLE
    [x] ALP_TOKEN_TYPE_STANDARD
    [x] SLP_TOKEN_TYPE_MINT_VAULT SEND and BURN actions  
    [x] SLP_TOKEN_TYPE_NFT1_GROUP
    [x] SLP_TOKEN_TYPE_NFT1_CHILD (Mint NFTs)
    [x] DataAction for ALP_TOKEN_TYPE_STANDARD txs
    [X] BURN txs for arbitrary amounts using BURN method (intentional burn, not SEND)
    [X] One-step mints for SLP NFTs
-   Agora actions (PARTIAL and ONESHOT)
    [] SLP (requires "chained" txs)
    [] ALP

### Phase Two, extended functionality

[] Support for chained XEC txs, i.e. handling an Action that requires more than one tx due to the 100kb tx size restriction
[] Support for chained token txs, i.e. handling an Action that requires more than one tx due to token protocol per-tx output limits

### Phase Three, wishlist

[] HD wallets
[] Fine-grained utxo control, avalanche proofs
[] SLP_TOKEN_TYPE_MINT_VAULT GENESIS and MINT actions

## Change log

-   0.0.0 Init with constructor and `sync` method [D17773](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D17773)
-   0.0.1 Add utxo getter methods `getFuelUtxos` and `getSpendableCoinbaseUtxos` [D17779](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D17779)

### 1.0.0

[D17822](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D17822) Add support for building and broadcasting txs, including ALP and SLP token txs. Update methods and syntax. Add preliminary support for Postage protocol.
[D18384](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18384) Add `fromMnemonic` constructor, make `Wallet` a normal export (not uniquely a default export), call `broadcastTx` using hex rawTx to facilitate testing with mock-chronik-client (practical improvements from implementing `ecash-wallet` in `cashtab-faucet`)
[D18390](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18390) Patch the `main` entry in `package.json` to point to `dist/index.js`

# 1.0.1

[D18391](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18391) Patch README

# 1.1.0

[D18398](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18398) Accept addresses in the transaction ouputs

# 1.2.0

[D18548](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18548) Support GENESIS, SEND, and BURN for SLP_TOKEN_TYPE_MINT_VAULT

# 1.3.0

[D18551](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18551) Support GENESIS, SEND, MINT, and BURN for SLP_TOKEN_TYPE_NFT1_GROUP

# 1.4.0

[D18558](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18558) Support GENESIS, SEND, and BURN for SLP_TOKEN_TYPE_NFT1_CHILD

# 1.5.0

[D18585](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18585) Support DataAction for ALP token sends

# 2.0.0

[D18627](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18627)

-   Support intentional SLP burns for arbitrary amounts with a chained tx.
-   Support automatic updating of determined wallet utxo set on tx build() (unless user opts out, e.g. for running tests) (NB does not apply to PostageTx)
-   **_BREAKING CHANGE_** the `.broadcast()` method no longer throws, returns a `success` key with more information
-   Patch issue where SLP burns are not invalidated for including specified outputs

# 2.0.1

[D18673](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18673)

-   Type errors uncovered when using `ecash-wallet` as a dep in `ecash-agora`

# 2.1.0

[D18834](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18834)

-   Support chained txs for minting SLP NFTs without requiring a "fan-out" tx

# 2.1.1

[D18839](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18839)

-   Patch type issue in returning `SelectUtxosResult`

# 2.1.2

[D18840](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18840)

-   Export the `BuiltAction` class to support the user of `Wallet` in the `ecash-agora` `AgoraOffer` `take` method

# 2.1.3

[D18841](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18841)

-   Return sats selection strategy used to select utxos with `SelectUtxosResult`

# 2.2.0

[D18837](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18837)

-   Update the `PostageTx` class to support client/server postage interactions

Commit message:

[ecash-wallet, ecash-lib] Support chained XEC txs for XEC-only actions that would otherwise exceed the broadcast size limit
Summary:
Support automatic creation of "chained" txs to split up XEC-only Actions that would exceed MAX_TX_SERSIZE if built in a single tx.

This diff allows app developers to send XEC to an arbitrary number of recipients. It is useful for app payment use cases where the number of recipients of a payment may not be known beforehand. For example, an airdrop of XEC to token holders, where the number of token holders and their holdings changes over time, but payments should occur at fixed intervals.

We do not run into this constraint often. But the existing airdrop calculator in Cashtab should properly use this method, as attempting an XEC airdrop to holdres of any token with a few thousand holders would otherwise cause a MAX_TX_SERSIZE error.

Test Plan: `npm test`, CI

Reviewers: #bitcoin_abc, Fabien

Reviewed By: #bitcoin_abc, Fabien

Subscribers: Fabien

Differential Revision: https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18867

modules/ecash-wallet/README.md, after:

# ecash-wallet

A production-ready wallet class for building and broadcasting eCash (XEC) txs

## Use

Install with `npm` (when published).

`npm i ecash-wallet`

Import. Create your `Wallet` and use methods.

```
import { Wallet } from "ecash-wallet";

const mnemonic = 'morning average minor stable parrot refuse credit exercise february mirror just begin',

const wallet = Wallet.fromMnemonic(mnemonic, chronik);
```

See tests for detailed methods.

## Roadmap

`ecash-wallet` is engineered to be a drop-in wallet lib for any ecash application that needs wallet functionality. The first milestone demonstrating minimal fulfillment of this requirement will be the integration of `ecash-wallet` into Cashtab.

### Phase One, Cashtab feature parity

-   XEC actions
    [x] Send XEC to one recipient
    [x] Send XEC to many recipients

-   GENESIS, MINT, SEND, and BURN for all token types
    [x] SLP_TOKEN_TYPE_FUNGIBLE
    [x] ALP_TOKEN_TYPE_STANDARD
    [x] SLP_TOKEN_TYPE_MINT_VAULT SEND and BURN actions  
    [x] SLP_TOKEN_TYPE_NFT1_GROUP
    [x] SLP_TOKEN_TYPE_NFT1_CHILD (Mint NFTs)
    [x] DataAction for ALP_TOKEN_TYPE_STANDARD txs
    [X] BURN txs for arbitrary amounts using BURN method (intentional burn, not SEND)
    [X] One-step mints for SLP NFTs
-   Agora actions (PARTIAL and ONESHOT)
    [] SLP (requires "chained" txs)
    [] ALP

### Phase Two, extended functionality

[x] Support for chained XEC txs, i.e. handling an Action that requires more than one tx due to the 100,000 byte tx size restriction
[] Support for chained token txs, i.e. handling an Action that requires more than one tx due to token protocol per-tx output limits

### Phase Three, wishlist

[] HD wallets
[] Fine-grained utxo control, avalanche proofs
[] SLP_TOKEN_TYPE_MINT_VAULT GENESIS and MINT actions

## Change log

-   0.0.0 Init with constructor and `sync` method [D17773](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D17773)
-   0.0.1 Add utxo getter methods `getFuelUtxos` and `getSpendableCoinbaseUtxos` [D17779](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D17779)

### 1.0.0

[D17822](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D17822) Add support for building and broadcasting txs, including ALP and SLP token txs. Update methods and syntax. Add preliminary support for Postage protocol.
[D18384](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18384) Add `fromMnemonic` constructor, make `Wallet` a normal export (not uniquely a default export), call `broadcastTx` using hex rawTx to facilitate testing with mock-chronik-client (practical improvements from implementing `ecash-wallet` in `cashtab-faucet`)
[D18390](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18390) Patch the `main` entry in `package.json` to point to `dist/index.js`

# 1.0.1

[D18391](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18391) Patch README

# 1.1.0

[D18398](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18398) Accept addresses in the transaction ouputs

# 1.2.0

[D18548](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18548) Support GENESIS, SEND, and BURN for SLP_TOKEN_TYPE_MINT_VAULT

# 1.3.0

[D18551](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18551) Support GENESIS, SEND, MINT, and BURN for SLP_TOKEN_TYPE_NFT1_GROUP

# 1.4.0

[D18558](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18558) Support GENESIS, SEND, and BURN for SLP_TOKEN_TYPE_NFT1_CHILD

# 1.5.0

[D18585](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18585) Support DataAction for ALP token sends

# 2.0.0

[D18627](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18627)

-   Support intentional SLP burns for arbitrary amounts with a chained tx.
-   Support automatic updating of determined wallet utxo set on tx build() (unless user opts out, e.g. for running tests) (NB does not apply to PostageTx)
-   **_BREAKING CHANGE_** the `.broadcast()` method no longer throws, returns a `success` key with more information
-   Patch issue where SLP burns are not invalidated for including specified outputs

# 2.0.1

[D18673](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18673)

-   Type errors uncovered when using `ecash-wallet` as a dep in `ecash-agora`

# 2.1.0

[D18834](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18834)

-   Support chained txs for minting SLP NFTs without requiring a "fan-out" tx

# 2.1.1

[D18839](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18839)

-   Patch type issue in returning `SelectUtxosResult`

# 2.1.2

[D18840](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18840)

-   Export the `BuiltAction` class to support the user of `Wallet` in the `ecash-agora` `AgoraOffer` `take` method

# 2.1.3

[D18841](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18841)

-   Return sats selection strategy used to select utxos with `SelectUtxosResult`

# 2.2.0

[D18837](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18837)

-   Update the `PostageTx` class to support client/server postage interactions

# 2.3.0

[D18867](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18867)

-   Support chained txs to handle XEC-only Actions that would exceed MAX_TX_SERSIZE if built in a single tx
