modules/cashtab-connect/README.md, before:

# Cashtab Connect

A developer-friendly API for integrating with the Cashtab browser extension. This library provides a clean, TypeScript-first interface for requesting user addresses and creating transactions through the Cashtab wallet extension.

## Installation

```bash
npm install cashtab-connect
```

```bash
yarn add cashtab-connect
```

## Quick Start

```typescript
import { CashtabConnect } from 'cashtab-connect';

// Create an instance
const cashtab = new CashtabConnect();

// Wait for the extension to become available
async function initializeCashtab() {
    try {
        await cashtab.waitForExtension();
        console.log('Cashtab extension is available!');

        // Now you can safely use the extension
        const address = await cashtab.requestAddress();
        console.log('User address:', address);
    } catch (error) {
        console.error('Extension not available:', error.message);
    }
}

// Initialize when your app loads
await initializeCashtab();
```

## API Reference

### CashtabConnect Class

The main class for interacting with the Cashtab extension.

#### Constructor

```typescript
new CashtabConnect(options?: CashtabConnectOptions)
```

**Options:**

-   `timeout` (number): Timeout in milliseconds for address requests (default: 30000)
-   `extensionNotAvailableMessage` (string): Custom error message when extension is not available
-   `addressDeniedMessage` (string): Custom error message when user denies address request

#### Methods

##### `waitForExtension(timeout?: number): Promise<void>`

Wait for the Cashtab extension to become available. This is the recommended way to check for extension availability.

**Parameters:**

-   `timeout` (number): Maximum time to wait in milliseconds (default: 3000). In practice this usually takes less than 1s.

**Returns:** Promise that resolves when extension is available or rejects on timeout.

**Example:**

```typescript
try {
    await cashtab.waitForExtension();
    console.log('Extension is ready!');
} catch (error) {
    console.log('Extension not available within timeout');
}
```

##### `isExtensionAvailable(): Promise<boolean>`

Check if the extension is currently available without waiting.

**Returns:** Promise that resolves to true if extension is available, false otherwise.

**Example:**

```typescript
const isAvailable = await cashtab.isExtensionAvailable();
if (isAvailable) {
    // Extension is ready to use
} else {
    // Extension is not available
}
```

##### `requestAddress(): Promise<string>`

Request the user's eCash address from their Cashtab wallet.

**Returns:** Promise that resolves with the user's address or rejects with an error.

**Throws:**

-   `ExtensionNotAvailableError`: When the Cashtab extension is not available
-   `AddressRequestDeniedError`: When the user denies the address request (includes reason)
-   `AddressRequestTimeoutError`: When the request times out

**Example:**

```typescript
try {
    const address = await cashtab.requestAddress();
    console.log('User address:', address);
} catch (error) {
    if (error instanceof CashtabExtensionUnavailableError) {
        console.log('Please install the Cashtab extension');
    } else if (error instanceof CashtabAddressDeniedError) {
        console.log('User denied address request');
    }
}
```

##### `sendXec(address: string, amount: string | number): Promise<void>`

Send XEC to an address using Cashtab (dev-friendly).

**Parameters:**

-   `address` (string): Recipient's eCash address
-   `amount` (string | number): Amount to send in XEC

**Throws:**

-   `CashtabExtensionUnavailableError`: When the Cashtab extension is not available

**Example:**

```typescript
cashtab.sendXec('ecash:qp3wj05au4l7q2m5ng4qg0vpeejl42lvl0nqj8q0q0', '1000.12');
```

### Error Classes

#### CashtabExtensionUnavailableError

Thrown when the Cashtab extension is not available.

#### CashtabAddressDeniedError

Thrown when the user denies an address request.

#### CashtabTimeoutError

Thrown when an address request times out.

## Advanced Usage

### Custom Instance

Create a custom instance with specific timeout:

```typescript
import { CashtabConnect } from 'cashtab-connect';

const cashtab = new CashtabConnect(60000); // 60 second timeout for address requests
```

### Error Handling

Comprehensive error handling example:

```typescript
import {
    CashtabConnect,
    CashtabExtensionUnavailableError,
    CashtabAddressDeniedError,
    CashtabTimeoutError,
} from 'cashtab-connect';

async function requestUserAddress() {
    const cashtab = new CashtabConnect();

    try {
        const address = await cashtab.requestAddress();
        return address;
    } catch (error) {
        if (error instanceof CashtabExtensionUnavailableError) {
            // Show installation instructions
            showInstallationInstructions();
        } else if (error instanceof CashtabAddressDeniedError) {
            // Show alternative payment methods
            showAlternativePaymentMethods();
        } else if (error instanceof CashtabTimeoutError) {
            // Retry or show timeout message
            showTimeoutMessage();
        } else {
            // Handle unexpected errors
            console.error('Unexpected error:', error);
        }
        throw error;
    }
}
```

## Browser Compatibility

This library works in all modern browsers that support:

-   ES2020 features
-   TypeScript
-   Browser extensions (Chrome, Firefox, Edge)

## Prerequisites

-   The Cashtab browser extension must be installed and active
-   The extension injects a global flag `window.bitcoinAbc = 'cashtab'` when available

## Security Considerations

1. **User Consent**: All address requests require explicit user approval through a popup
2. **Transaction Review**: Transaction creation opens Cashtab for user review before sending
3. **Origin Validation**: The extension only accepts messages from the same window

## Troubleshooting

### Extension Not Detected

1. Ensure the Cashtab extension is installed
2. Check that the extension is enabled
3. Verify the extension is compatible with your browser
4. Use `waitForExtension()` instead of checking availability immediately on page load

### Address Request Fails

1. Check that the user approves the request in the popup
2. Verify the extension is available before making requests using `waitForExtension()`
3. Handle timeout errors appropriately

### Transaction Not Opening

1. Check that the address and amount parameters are valid
2. Ensure the extension is available using `waitForExtension()`
3. Verify the address format is correct

## Examples

### React Component

```tsx
import React, { useEffect, useState } from 'react';
import {
    CashtabConnect,
    CashtabExtensionUnavailableError,
    CashtabAddressDeniedError,
    CashtabTimeoutError,
} from 'cashtab-connect';

function CashtabIntegration() {
    const [address, setAddress] = useState<string | null>(null);
    const [isExtensionAvailable, setIsExtensionAvailable] = useState(false);
    const [isCheckingExtension, setIsCheckingExtension] = useState(true);
    const [isLoading, setIsLoading] = useState(false);
    const [addressResult, setAddressResult] = useState<{
        message: string;
        type: 'success' | 'error';
    } | null>(null);

    // Initialize CashtabConnect in state
    const [cashtab] = useState(() => new CashtabConnect());

    // Check extension availability on mount
    useEffect(() => {
        const checkAvailability = async () => {
            try {
                await cashtab.waitForExtension();
                setIsExtensionAvailable(true);
                setIsCheckingExtension(false);
            } catch (error) {
                console.log('Extension not available after waiting:', error);
                setIsCheckingExtension(false);
            }
        };

        checkAvailability();
    }, [cashtab]);

    const handleRequestAddress = async () => {
        setIsLoading(true);
        setAddressResult(null);

        try {
            const userAddress = await cashtab.requestAddress();
            setAddress(userAddress);
            setAddressResult({
                message: `Address received: ${userAddress}`,
                type: 'success',
            });
        } catch (error) {
            let errorMessage = 'Unknown error occurred';

            if (error instanceof CashtabExtensionUnavailableError) {
                errorMessage = 'Extension is not available';
            } else if (error instanceof CashtabAddressDeniedError) {
                errorMessage = 'User denied the address request';
            } else if (error instanceof CashtabTimeoutError) {
                errorMessage = 'Address request timed out';
            } else if (error instanceof Error) {
                errorMessage = error.message;
            }

            setAddressResult({ message: errorMessage, type: 'error' });
        } finally {
            setIsLoading(false);
        }
    };

    const handleSendXec = () => {
        cashtab.sendXec(
            'ecash:qp3wj05au4l7q2m5ng4qg0vpeejl42lvl0nqj8q0q0',
            '1000.12',
        );
    };

    if (isCheckingExtension) {
        return <div>Checking for Cashtab extension...</div>;
    }

    return (
        <div>
            <p>
                Cashtab Extension:{' '}
                {isExtensionAvailable ? 'Available' : 'Not Available'}
            </p>
            {address && <p>User Address: {address}</p>}
            {addressResult && (
                <p
                    style={{
                        color:
                            addressResult.type === 'success' ? 'green' : 'red',
                    }}
                >
                    {addressResult.message}
                </p>
            )}
            <button
                onClick={handleRequestAddress}
                disabled={!isExtensionAvailable || isLoading}
            >
                {isLoading ? 'Requesting...' : 'Request Address'}
            </button>
            <button onClick={handleSendXec} disabled={!isExtensionAvailable}>
                Send XEC
            </button>
        </div>
    );
}
```

## Development

### Running Tests

```bash
npm test
```

### Running the Demo

The library includes a React demo application that showcases all features:

```bash
npm start
```

Then open `http://localhost:3000` in your browser. The demo requires the Cashtab browser extension to be installed.

The React demo demonstrates:

-   Extension status detection
-   Address requests with network selection
-   Transaction creation with form validation
-   Error handling for various scenarios
-   Real-time event logging
-   Both class-based and convenience function usage patterns

See the [demo README](demo/README.md) for more details.

### Building

```bash
npm run build
```

### Linting

```bash
npm run lint
```

## License

MIT License - see COPYING file at top level of the monorepo for details.

## Support

For support, please visit the [Cashtab documentation](https://cashtab.com/) or [GitHub repository](https://github.com/Bitcoin-ABC/bitcoin-abc/tree/master/cashtab).

Commit message:

[Cashtab, cashtab-connect] Support tx approval and rejection in cashtab extension and cashtab-connect
Summary:
Users should have a clear option to reject a tx opened by the browser extension or a URL. We should pass this info to the requesting app so it can be handled appropriately.

This is a typical API used by Phantom and metamask. It's useful for the webpage to know if the user completed or rejected the tx, as there may be some app functionality that depends on this.

Note that one consequence of this diff is users who directly navigate to a url-params-populated tx will get a "Reject" button that does not work. This is acceptable behavior. It's worth the tradeoff for the reject button working for tabs that are opened by a link, which is the expected use case.

Test Plan: `npm test`, run `npm start` in `cashtab-connect/demo` and try accepting / rejecting txs

Reviewers: #bitcoin_abc, Fabien

Reviewed By: #bitcoin_abc, Fabien

Subscribers: Fabien

Differential Revision: https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18348

modules/cashtab-connect/README.md, after:

# Cashtab Connect

A developer-friendly API for integrating with the Cashtab browser extension. This library provides a clean, TypeScript-first interface for requesting user addresses and creating transactions through the Cashtab wallet extension.

## Installation

```bash
npm install cashtab-connect
```

```bash
yarn add cashtab-connect
```

## Quick Start

```typescript
import { CashtabConnect } from 'cashtab-connect';

// Create an instance
const cashtab = new CashtabConnect();

// Wait for the extension to become available
async function initializeCashtab() {
    try {
        await cashtab.waitForExtension();
        console.log('Cashtab extension is available!');

        // Now you can safely use the extension
        const address = await cashtab.requestAddress();
        console.log('User address:', address);
    } catch (error) {
        console.error('Extension not available:', error.message);
    }
}

// Initialize when your app loads
await initializeCashtab();
```

## API Reference

### CashtabConnect Class

The main class for interacting with the Cashtab extension.

#### Constructor

```typescript
new CashtabConnect(options?: CashtabConnectOptions)
```

**Options:**

-   `timeout` (number): Timeout in milliseconds for address requests (default: 30000)
-   `extensionNotAvailableMessage` (string): Custom error message when extension is not available
-   `addressDeniedMessage` (string): Custom error message when user denies address request

#### Methods

##### `waitForExtension(timeout?: number): Promise<void>`

Wait for the Cashtab extension to become available. This is the recommended way to check for extension availability.

**Parameters:**

-   `timeout` (number): Maximum time to wait in milliseconds (default: 3000). In practice this usually takes less than 1s.

**Returns:** Promise that resolves when extension is available or rejects on timeout.

**Example:**

```typescript
try {
    await cashtab.waitForExtension();
    console.log('Extension is ready!');
} catch (error) {
    console.log('Extension not available within timeout');
}
```

##### `isExtensionAvailable(): Promise<boolean>`

Check if the extension is currently available without waiting.

**Returns:** Promise that resolves to true if extension is available, false otherwise.

**Example:**

```typescript
const isAvailable = await cashtab.isExtensionAvailable();
if (isAvailable) {
    // Extension is ready to use
} else {
    // Extension is not available
}
```

##### `requestAddress(): Promise<string>`

Request the user's eCash address from their Cashtab wallet.

**Returns:** Promise that resolves with the user's address or rejects with an error.

**Throws:**

-   `ExtensionNotAvailableError`: When the Cashtab extension is not available
-   `AddressRequestDeniedError`: When the user denies the address request (includes reason)
-   `AddressRequestTimeoutError`: When the request times out

**Example:**

```typescript
try {
    const address = await cashtab.requestAddress();
    console.log('User address:', address);
} catch (error) {
    if (error instanceof CashtabExtensionUnavailableError) {
        console.log('Please install the Cashtab extension');
    } else if (error instanceof CashtabAddressDeniedError) {
        console.log('User denied address request');
    }
}
```

##### `sendXec(address: string, amount: string | number): Promise<void>`

Send XEC to an address using Cashtab (dev-friendly).

**Parameters:**

-   `address` (string): Recipient's eCash address
-   `amount` (string | number): Amount to send in XEC

**Throws:**

-   `CashtabExtensionUnavailableError`: When the Cashtab extension is not available

**Example:**

```typescript
cashtab.sendXec('ecash:qp3wj05au4l7q2m5ng4qg0vpeejl42lvl0nqj8q0q0', '1000.12');
```

### Error Classes

#### CashtabExtensionUnavailableError

Thrown when the Cashtab extension is not available.

#### CashtabAddressDeniedError

Thrown when the user denies an address request.

#### CashtabTimeoutError

Thrown when an address request times out.

## Advanced Usage

### Custom Instance

Create a custom instance with specific timeout:

```typescript
import { CashtabConnect } from 'cashtab-connect';

const cashtab = new CashtabConnect(60000); // 60 second timeout for address requests
```

### Error Handling

Comprehensive error handling example:

```typescript
import {
    CashtabConnect,
    CashtabExtensionUnavailableError,
    CashtabAddressDeniedError,
    CashtabTimeoutError,
} from 'cashtab-connect';

async function requestUserAddress() {
    const cashtab = new CashtabConnect();

    try {
        const address = await cashtab.requestAddress();
        return address;
    } catch (error) {
        if (error instanceof CashtabExtensionUnavailableError) {
            // Show installation instructions
            showInstallationInstructions();
        } else if (error instanceof CashtabAddressDeniedError) {
            // Show alternative payment methods
            showAlternativePaymentMethods();
        } else if (error instanceof CashtabTimeoutError) {
            // Retry or show timeout message
            showTimeoutMessage();
        } else {
            // Handle unexpected errors
            console.error('Unexpected error:', error);
        }
        throw error;
    }
}
```

## Browser Compatibility

This library works in all modern browsers that support:

-   ES2020 features
-   TypeScript
-   Browser extensions (Chrome, Firefox, Edge)

## Prerequisites

-   The Cashtab browser extension must be installed and active
-   The extension injects a global flag `window.bitcoinAbc = 'cashtab'` when available

## Security Considerations

1. **User Consent**: All address requests require explicit user approval through a popup
2. **Transaction Review**: Transaction creation opens Cashtab for user review before sending
3. **Origin Validation**: The extension only accepts messages from the same window

## Troubleshooting

### Extension Not Detected

1. Ensure the Cashtab extension is installed
2. Check that the extension is enabled
3. Verify the extension is compatible with your browser
4. Use `waitForExtension()` instead of checking availability immediately on page load

### Address Request Fails

1. Check that the user approves the request in the popup
2. Verify the extension is available before making requests using `waitForExtension()`
3. Handle timeout errors appropriately

### Transaction Not Opening

1. Check that the address and amount parameters are valid
2. Ensure the extension is available using `waitForExtension()`
3. Verify the address format is correct

## Examples

### React Component

```tsx
import React, { useEffect, useState } from 'react';
import {
    CashtabConnect,
    CashtabExtensionUnavailableError,
    CashtabAddressDeniedError,
    CashtabTimeoutError,
} from 'cashtab-connect';

function CashtabIntegration() {
    const [address, setAddress] = useState<string | null>(null);
    const [isExtensionAvailable, setIsExtensionAvailable] = useState(false);
    const [isCheckingExtension, setIsCheckingExtension] = useState(true);
    const [isLoading, setIsLoading] = useState(false);
    const [addressResult, setAddressResult] = useState<{
        message: string;
        type: 'success' | 'error';
    } | null>(null);

    // Initialize CashtabConnect in state
    const [cashtab] = useState(() => new CashtabConnect());

    // Check extension availability on mount
    useEffect(() => {
        const checkAvailability = async () => {
            try {
                await cashtab.waitForExtension();
                setIsExtensionAvailable(true);
                setIsCheckingExtension(false);
            } catch (error) {
                console.log('Extension not available after waiting:', error);
                setIsCheckingExtension(false);
            }
        };

        checkAvailability();
    }, [cashtab]);

    const handleRequestAddress = async () => {
        setIsLoading(true);
        setAddressResult(null);

        try {
            const userAddress = await cashtab.requestAddress();
            setAddress(userAddress);
            setAddressResult({
                message: `Address received: ${userAddress}`,
                type: 'success',
            });
        } catch (error) {
            let errorMessage = 'Unknown error occurred';

            if (error instanceof CashtabExtensionUnavailableError) {
                errorMessage = 'Extension is not available';
            } else if (error instanceof CashtabAddressDeniedError) {
                errorMessage = 'User denied the address request';
            } else if (error instanceof CashtabTimeoutError) {
                errorMessage = 'Address request timed out';
            } else if (error instanceof Error) {
                errorMessage = error.message;
            }

            setAddressResult({ message: errorMessage, type: 'error' });
        } finally {
            setIsLoading(false);
        }
    };

    const handleSendXec = () => {
        cashtab.sendXec(
            'ecash:qp3wj05au4l7q2m5ng4qg0vpeejl42lvl0nqj8q0q0',
            '1000.12',
        );
    };

    if (isCheckingExtension) {
        return <div>Checking for Cashtab extension...</div>;
    }

    return (
        <div>
            <p>
                Cashtab Extension:{' '}
                {isExtensionAvailable ? 'Available' : 'Not Available'}
            </p>
            {address && <p>User Address: {address}</p>}
            {addressResult && (
                <p
                    style={{
                        color:
                            addressResult.type === 'success' ? 'green' : 'red',
                    }}
                >
                    {addressResult.message}
                </p>
            )}
            <button
                onClick={handleRequestAddress}
                disabled={!isExtensionAvailable || isLoading}
            >
                {isLoading ? 'Requesting...' : 'Request Address'}
            </button>
            <button onClick={handleSendXec} disabled={!isExtensionAvailable}>
                Send XEC
            </button>
        </div>
    );
}
```

## Development

### Running Tests

```bash
npm test
```

### Running the Demo

The library includes a React demo application that showcases all features:

```bash
npm start
```

Then open `http://localhost:3000` in your browser. The demo requires the Cashtab browser extension to be installed.

The React demo demonstrates:

-   Extension status detection
-   Address requests with network selection
-   Transaction creation with form validation
-   Error handling for various scenarios
-   Real-time event logging
-   Both class-based and convenience function usage patterns

See the [demo README](demo/README.md) for more details.

### Building

```bash
npm run build
```

### Linting

```bash
npm run lint
```

## Changelog

-   1.1.0 - Add transaction approval/rejection support for transactions. Extension transactions send responses back to the originating webpage. [D18348](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D18348)

## License

MIT License - see COPYING file at top level of the monorepo for details.

## Support

For support, please visit the [Cashtab documentation](https://cashtab.com/) or [GitHub repository](https://github.com/Bitcoin-ABC/bitcoin-abc/tree/master/cashtab).
