modules/chronik-client/README.md, before:

# Chronik Indexer Client

Access Chronik Indexer via browser or Node.

## Installation

`npm install chronik-client`

`yarn add chronik-client`

## Usage

```js
import { ChronikClient } from 'chronik-client';

const chronik = new ChronikClient([
    'https://yourFirstChronikServerUrl.com',
    'https://yourSecondChronikServerUrl.com',
    'https://yourThirdChronikServerUrl.com',
]);

// If the first url is non-responsive it will cycle through the rest of the array.

// Get Genesis block:
const block = await chronik.block(
    '000000000019d6689c085ae165831e934ff763ae46a2a6c172b3f1b60a8ce26f',
);

// Get the first 11 blocks of the chain:
const blocks = await chronik.blocks(0, 10);

// Get SLP tx details:
const tx = await chronik.tx(
    '0f3c3908a2ddec8dea91d2fe1f77295bbbb158af869bff345d44ae800f0a5498',
);

// Get token details for a given token ID
const tokenDetails = await chronik.token(
    '0daf200e3418f2df1158efef36fbb507f12928f1fdcf3543703e64e75a4a9073',
);

const GENESIS_PK =
    '04678afdb0fe5548271967f1a67130b7105cd6a828e03909a67962e0ea1f61deb649f6bc' +
    '3f4cef38c4f35504e51ec112de5c384df7ba0b8d578a4c702b6bf11d5f';

// Get first page of tx history of the Genesis pubkey, most recent first:
const history = await chronik
    .script('p2pk', GENESIS_PK)
    .history(/*page=*/ 0, /*page_size=*/ 10);

// Get all UTXOs of the Genesis pubkey:
const utxos = await chronik.script('p2pk', GENESIS_PK).utxos();

// Listen to updates on scripts:
const ws = chronik.ws({
    onMessage: msg => {
        console.log('Got update: ', msg);
    },
    onReconnect: e => {
        // Fired before a reconnect attempt is made:
        console.log('Reconnecting websocket, disconnection cause: ', e);
    },
    // Optional: ping the ws every 30s to reduce disconnects
    keepAlive: true,
});

// Wait for WS to be connected:
await ws.waitForOpen();

// Subscribe to blocks
ws.subscribeToBlocks();

// Subscribe to scripts:
ws.subscribeToScript('p2pkh', 'b8ae1c47effb58f72f7bca819fe7fc252f9e852e');
// Unsubscribe:
ws.unsubscribeFromScript('p2pkh', 'b8ae1c47effb58f72f7bca819fe7fc252f9e852e');

// You may also subscribe to addresses, tokenIds, and lokadIds. See integration tests.
```

## Changelog

-   0.10.1 - Deprecate client-side ping keepAlive. Server-side is now available.
-   0.11.0 - Add support for `chronikInfo()` method to `ChronikClientNode`
-   0.11.1 - Do not try next server if error is unrelated to server failure
-   0.12.0 - Add support for `block(hashOrHeight)` and `blocks(startHeight, endHeight)` methods to `ChronikClientNode`
-   0.13.0 - Add support for `blockTxs(hashOrHeight, page, pageSize)` and `tx(txid)` methods to `ChronikClientNode`
-   0.14.0 - Add support for `rawTx(txid)` method to `ChronikClientNode`
-   0.15.0 - Add support for `script` endpoints `history()` and `utxos()` to `ChronikClientNode`
-   0.16.0 - Add support for `broadcastTx` and `broadcastTxs` endpoints to `ChronikClientNode`
-   0.17.0 - Add support for token proto to endpoints that return `Tx_InNode` to `ChronikClientNode`
-   0.18.0 - Add support for websocket connections to `ChronikClientNode`
-   0.19.0 - Add support for token data in tx inputs and outputs to `ChronikClientNode`
-   0.20.0 - Add support for calling script endpoints by address to `ChronikClientNode`
-   0.21.0 - Skipped as accidentally published 0.22.0 before diff approval at 0.21.1-rc.1
-   0.22.0 - Add support for `tokenId` endpoints and token data in utxos to `ChronikClientNode`
-   0.22.1 - Return `script` key for utxos fetched from `tokenId` endpoint
-   0.23.0 - Add support for returning `TokenInfo` from `chronik.token(tokenId)` calls to `ChronikClientNode`
-   0.24.0 - Support `subscribeToAddress` and `unsubscribeFromAddress` methods in the `ChronikClientNode` websocket
-   0.25.0 - Organize websocket subscriptions for `ChronikClientNode` under object instead of array
-   0.25.1 - Move `ecashaddrjs` from dev dependency to dependency
-   0.25.2 - Fix this package to work in the browser without requiring `Buffer` shim
-   0.26.0 - Add `confirmedTxs` and `unconfirmedTxs` to `script` endpoint
-   0.26.1 - If websocket takes longer than 5s to connect, try the next ws
-   0.26.2 - Return type `number` for `timeFirstSeen` from `chronik.token()` endpoint in `ChronikClientNode`
-   0.27.0 - Support for `lokadId` endpoints and websocket subscriptions
-   0.28.0 - Support for websocket subscriptions by `tokenID`
-   0.28.1 - Upgrading dependencies [D16375](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D16375)
-   0.28.2 - Improve failoverProxy to switch servers on error state [D16584](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D16584)
-   0.29.0 - Support for `plugins` endpoints: `utxos` and `groups` [D16605](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D16605)
-   1.0.0 - Deprecate NNG chronik and rename all `InNode` classes and types [D16627](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D16627)

Commit message:

[chronik-client] Version bump to publish non-nng chronik-client
Summary:
Now that the monorepo does not use NNG chronik-client anywhere (and the use of ChronikClientNode has also been deprecated in the monorepo), publish in-node-only chronik-client as 1.0.0

This is a breaking change for existing users. Aliasing ChronikClientNode and all types was considered, however there is no clean way to deprecate this as users with old types will always be forced to update them unless dozens of aliases are maintained here indefinitely. Given the present low download count of the module, judged better impact to drop all legacy names and types now.

Going forward, breaking changes will have major version bumps.

Test Plan: `npm test`

Reviewers: #bitcoin_abc, emack, Fabien

Reviewed By: #bitcoin_abc, emack, Fabien

Subscribers: Fabien, emack

Differential Revision: https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D16710

modules/chronik-client/README.md, after:

# Chronik Indexer Client

Access Chronik Indexer via browser or Node.

## Installation

`npm install chronik-client`

`yarn add chronik-client`

## Usage

```js
import { ChronikClient } from 'chronik-client';

const chronik = new ChronikClient([
    'https://yourFirstChronikServerUrl.com',
    'https://yourSecondChronikServerUrl.com',
    'https://yourThirdChronikServerUrl.com',
]);

// If the first url is non-responsive it will cycle through the rest of the array.

// Get Genesis block:
const block = await chronik.block(
    '000000000019d6689c085ae165831e934ff763ae46a2a6c172b3f1b60a8ce26f',
);

// Get the first 11 blocks of the chain:
const blocks = await chronik.blocks(0, 10);

// Get SLP tx details:
const tx = await chronik.tx(
    '0f3c3908a2ddec8dea91d2fe1f77295bbbb158af869bff345d44ae800f0a5498',
);

// Get token details for a given token ID
const tokenDetails = await chronik.token(
    '0daf200e3418f2df1158efef36fbb507f12928f1fdcf3543703e64e75a4a9073',
);

const GENESIS_PK =
    '04678afdb0fe5548271967f1a67130b7105cd6a828e03909a67962e0ea1f61deb649f6bc' +
    '3f4cef38c4f35504e51ec112de5c384df7ba0b8d578a4c702b6bf11d5f';

// Get first page of tx history of the Genesis pubkey, most recent first:
const history = await chronik
    .script('p2pk', GENESIS_PK)
    .history(/*page=*/ 0, /*page_size=*/ 10);

// Get all UTXOs of the Genesis pubkey:
const utxos = await chronik.script('p2pk', GENESIS_PK).utxos();

// Listen to updates on scripts:
const ws = chronik.ws({
    onMessage: msg => {
        console.log('Got update: ', msg);
    },
    onReconnect: e => {
        // Fired before a reconnect attempt is made:
        console.log('Reconnecting websocket, disconnection cause: ', e);
    },
    // Optional: ping the ws every 30s to reduce disconnects
    keepAlive: true,
});

// Wait for WS to be connected:
await ws.waitForOpen();

// Subscribe to blocks
ws.subscribeToBlocks();

// Subscribe to scripts:
ws.subscribeToScript('p2pkh', 'b8ae1c47effb58f72f7bca819fe7fc252f9e852e');
// Unsubscribe:
ws.unsubscribeFromScript('p2pkh', 'b8ae1c47effb58f72f7bca819fe7fc252f9e852e');

// You may also subscribe to addresses, tokenIds, and lokadIds. See integration tests.
```

## Changelog

-   0.10.1 - Deprecate client-side ping keepAlive. Server-side is now available.
-   0.11.0 - Add support for `chronikInfo()` method to `ChronikClientNode`
-   0.11.1 - Do not try next server if error is unrelated to server failure
-   0.12.0 - Add support for `block(hashOrHeight)` and `blocks(startHeight, endHeight)` methods to `ChronikClientNode`
-   0.13.0 - Add support for `blockTxs(hashOrHeight, page, pageSize)` and `tx(txid)` methods to `ChronikClientNode`
-   0.14.0 - Add support for `rawTx(txid)` method to `ChronikClientNode`
-   0.15.0 - Add support for `script` endpoints `history()` and `utxos()` to `ChronikClientNode`
-   0.16.0 - Add support for `broadcastTx` and `broadcastTxs` endpoints to `ChronikClientNode`
-   0.17.0 - Add support for token proto to endpoints that return `Tx_InNode` to `ChronikClientNode`
-   0.18.0 - Add support for websocket connections to `ChronikClientNode`
-   0.19.0 - Add support for token data in tx inputs and outputs to `ChronikClientNode`
-   0.20.0 - Add support for calling script endpoints by address to `ChronikClientNode`
-   0.21.0 - Skipped as accidentally published 0.22.0 before diff approval at 0.21.1-rc.1
-   0.22.0 - Add support for `tokenId` endpoints and token data in utxos to `ChronikClientNode`
-   0.22.1 - Return `script` key for utxos fetched from `tokenId` endpoint
-   0.23.0 - Add support for returning `TokenInfo` from `chronik.token(tokenId)` calls to `ChronikClientNode`
-   0.24.0 - Support `subscribeToAddress` and `unsubscribeFromAddress` methods in the `ChronikClientNode` websocket
-   0.25.0 - Organize websocket subscriptions for `ChronikClientNode` under object instead of array
-   0.25.1 - Move `ecashaddrjs` from dev dependency to dependency
-   0.25.2 - Fix this package to work in the browser without requiring `Buffer` shim
-   0.26.0 - Add `confirmedTxs` and `unconfirmedTxs` to `script` endpoint
-   0.26.1 - If websocket takes longer than 5s to connect, try the next ws
-   0.26.2 - Return type `number` for `timeFirstSeen` from `chronik.token()` endpoint in `ChronikClientNode`
-   0.27.0 - Support for `lokadId` endpoints and websocket subscriptions
-   0.28.0 - Support for websocket subscriptions by `tokenID`
-   0.28.1 - Upgrading dependencies [D16375](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D16375)
-   0.28.2 - Improve failoverProxy to switch servers on error state [D16584](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D16584)
-   0.29.0 - Support for `plugins` endpoints: `utxos` and `groups` [D16605](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D16605)
-   1.0.0 - **(Breaking change)** Deprecate NNG chronik and rename all `InNode` classes and types [D16627](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D16627). Users may no longer import `ChronikClientNode` class to run in-node chronik-client and must import `ChronikClient` (which is no longer the NNG class). [D16710](https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D16710)
