apps/ecash-herald/README.md, before:

# ecash-herald

A telegram bot to broadcast ecash chain activity

## development

To monitor the blockchain and send messages with your own telegram bot:

1. `npm i`
2. `cp secrets.sample.js secrets.js`
3. Get telegram bot API keys from https://t.me/BotFather
4. Create your own Telegram channel and invite your bot there.
5. Fill out `secrets.js` with information for your telegram bot and channel
6. `node index.js`

## working on the app

Because app performance is ultimately tied to the aesthetic readout of generated msgs, the actual format of generated messages must also be reviewed.

1. Get telegram bot API keys from https://t.me/BotFather
2. `cp secrets.sample.js secrets.js` and fill out with your Telegram bot information
3. To test changes to the app, run `npm run generateMock`. This will build and broadcast telegram msg strings for a mocked block containing txids listed in `scripts/generateMock`.
4. If your diff includes new features that are not covered by this mocked block, add relevant txids to the `txids` array in `scripts/generateMock.js`. You may also need to update `outputscriptInfoMap` and `tokenInfoMap` in `test/mocks/block.js`.
5. If test messages look good, run `npm test` to confirm all unit tests still pass
6. Run `npm run sendMsgByBlock <blockheight>` to review a msg for a specific block using live API calls

Commit message:

[ecash-herald] Implement typescript
Summary:
Convert ecash-herald to typescript

There was not a clear path to doing this incrementally so just did it all. It's messy. Uncovered some bugs that had to be fixed in line with this diff.

Assurance of consistent app performance with passing tests. Will be much easier to work with going forward.

Test Plan:
`npm test`

There's really no way to review this diff.

But, the tests confirm that mocks are the same (only change being a bugfix where tokenDocumentUrl was coming in undefined, since it's `url` in post-nng chronik).

I also have this version running in the Herald Dev channel as of block 869,177 -- so you can confirm expected behavior there.

the options were basically mothball herald and write a new app in typescript or convert it all in one go.

Reviewers: #bitcoin_abc, emack

Reviewed By: #bitcoin_abc, emack

Differential Revision: https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D17060

apps/ecash-herald/README.md, after:

# ecash-herald

A telegram bot to broadcast eCash chain activity

## development

To monitor the blockchain and send messages with your own telegram bot:

1. `npm i`
2. `cp secrets.sample.js secrets.js`
3. Get telegram bot API keys from https://t.me/BotFather
4. Create your own Telegram channel and invite your bot there.
5. Fill out `secrets.ts` with information for your telegram bot and channel
6. `ts-node index.js` (or `npm run build`, then `node dist/index.js`)

## working on the app

Because app performance is ultimately tied to the aesthetic readout of generated msgs, the actual format of generated messages must also be reviewed.

1. Get telegram bot API keys from https://t.me/BotFather
2. `cp secrets.sample.ts secrets.ts` and fill out with your Telegram bot information
3. To test changes to the app, run `npm run generateMock`. This will build and broadcast telegram msg strings for a mocked block containing txids listed in `scripts/generateMock`.
4. If your diff includes new features that are not covered by this mocked block, add relevant txids to the `txids` array in `scripts/generateMock.js`. You may also need to update `outputscriptInfoMap` and `tokenInfoMap` in `test/mocks/block.js`.
5. If test messages look good, run `npm test` to confirm all unit tests still pass
6. Run `npm run sendMsgByBlock <blockheight>` to review a msg for a specific block using live API calls
7. Run `ts-node scripts/getDailySummary` to review txs from the last 24 hrs
