apps/token-server/README.md, before:

# token-server

Server to manage Cashtab rewards tokens. May be modified to support other token back-end tasks.

## Development

`npm start` to run locally

Note: you will have to adjust the `imageDir` param in `config` to test serving of static image files

## Production

Before running `token-server` in production, you must first set up the file system on your desired server (see "Setting up the file system", below).

Fill out `secrets.ts` with your Telegram bot information.

`token-server` is deployed with docker.

You can test production deployment with

1. Add `EXPOSE 3333` just before `CMD [ "node", "dist/index.js" ]` in `Dockerfile`

2. Build docker container:

```
docker build -t token-server_local .
```

3. Deploy docker container:

Note: replace `/path/to/token-icons` below with your local absolute path

```
docker run -p 3333:3333 --init --rm --name token-server --mount type=bind,source=/path/to/token-icons,target=/token-icons token-server_local
```

4. Test from web browser, e.g. navigate to `localhost:3333/status`

## Setting up the file system

The server file system must be configured for image serving.

1. Create directory for `config.imageDir`
2. Create subdirectories at `config.imageDir` for all supported `config.iconSizes`

For example,

```
mkdir token-icons
mkdir token-icons/32
mkdir token-icons/64
mkdir token-icons/128
```

3. Repeat the above steps for `config.rejectedDir`

e.g.

```
mkdir rejected
mkdir rejected/32
mkdir rejected/64
mkdir rejected/128
```

Commit message:

[Cashtab + token-server + ecash-coinselect] Implement token rewards for Cashtab users
Summary:
T2838

Implement claimable token rewards for users of Cashtab. A valid ecash address may claim a reward every 24 hours.

Summary of changes to get this feature
- In Cashtab, we add a new "Rewards" screen. The screen displays a button "Claim Rewards" if the user is eligible (no claimed rewards for 24 hours). If ineligible, a countdown is displayed to when eligibility returns.
- In token-server, we add the logic to build and broadcast a token reward. We add an endpoint to summon a token reward tx to an address, if it is eligible.
- In ecash-coinselect, we add stub type declarations, so typescript applications (like token-server) can still build if they are using it.

I have tested this locally. Able to claim rewards, see countdown for ineligible address, get expected error msg if the server is out of money. It is tricky to test the full stack locally. You will need to create your own token, change URL in cashtab, change wallet settings in token-server. If you really want to do this for hobbyist reasons, ping me on Telegram. Otherwise, it is probably best to land this when we will both be available for at least an hour.

DM me with any concerns about DOSing or draining the rewards faucet. Since the cost of token rewards is relatively low (we can test more than 10,000 rewards for less than $10), I am in favor of launching, then dealing with "attacks" as they emerge.

Test Plan: `npm test`

Reviewers: #bitcoin_abc, emack

Reviewed By: #bitcoin_abc, emack

Subscribers: emack

Differential Revision: https://reviews.bitcoinabc.org/D15997

apps/token-server/README.md, after:

# token-server

Server to manage Cashtab rewards tokens. May be modified to support other token back-end tasks.

## Development

`npm start` to run locally

Note: you will have to adjust the `imageDir` param in `config` to test serving of static image files

## Note on secrets.ts

You will need a secrets.ts file if you plan to run the server locally (or deployed). If you run `npm test` without a `secrets.ts` file, token-server will use `secrets.sample.ts`.

Some secrets are needed for integration testing. These are included in `secrets.sample.ts`. However, if you have your own `secrets.ts` file, then the tests will reference it (and fail if its `prod` key differs from `secrets.sample.ts`).

## Production

Before running `token-server` in production, you must first set up the file system on your desired server (see "Setting up the file system", below).

Fill out `secrets.ts` with your Telegram bot information.

`token-server` is deployed with docker.

You can test production deployment with

1. Add `EXPOSE 3333` just before `CMD [ "node", "dist/index.js" ]` in `Dockerfile`

2. Build docker container:

```
docker build -t token-server_local .
```

3. Deploy docker container:

Note: replace `/path/to/token-icons` below with your local absolute path

```
docker run -p 3333:3333 --init --rm --name token-server --mount type=bind,source=/path/to/token-icons,target=/token-icons token-server_local
```

4. Test from web browser, e.g. navigate to `localhost:3333/status`

## Setting up the file system

The server file system must be configured for image serving.

1. Create directory for `config.imageDir`
2. Create subdirectories at `config.imageDir` for all supported `config.iconSizes`

For example,

```
mkdir token-icons
mkdir token-icons/32
mkdir token-icons/64
mkdir token-icons/128
```

3. Repeat the above steps for `config.rejectedDir`

e.g.

```
mkdir rejected
mkdir rejected/32
mkdir rejected/64
mkdir rejected/128
```
